\input texinfo
@setfilename internal.inf
@settitle CGUI Internal
@setchapternewpage odd
@paragraphindent 0

@ifinfo
@direntry
* Internal: (internal). Internal description of CGUI.
@end direntry
This is the Info version of the CGUI Internal description.

By Christer Sandberg
@end ifinfo

@node Top, , (dir), (dir)
@example


                          CGUI a GUI addon to Allegro

                             Internal description

                             by Christer Sandberg


@end example


@menu
* Introduction to the internals of CGUI::Introduction to the internals of CGUI
* Event processing::        Event processing
* Mouse messages.::         Mouse messages.
* Object handling of mouse messages::Object handling of mouse messages
* Keys to important things::Keys to important things
* Releasing::               Releasing
* -::                       -
@end menu

@node Introduction to the internals of CGUI, Event processing, , Top
@chapter Introduction to the internals of CGUI

@node Event processing, Mouse messages., Introduction to the internals of CGUI, Top
@chapter Event processing

The "event processing" is an important part of CGUI. Messages can be put
into the queue either explicitly or because of an external event. The
external events taken care of by CGUI is mouse, keyboard and timer events.
The external events are transfered from the external device (mouse etc.) to
the queue by an interrupt routine. This routine entirely uses Allegro's
hooks and therefore they will maybe not be called by true ISR:s on some
platforms, it will depend on the Allegro implementation. However, since
Allegro will emulate properly in such cases, you should think of them as
real ISR hooks.
@*
The queue is made such a way that it will always be safe for the hooks to
insert messages. All provided that the queue size is big enough to contain
all messages that need to be queued. The size is enough for any "normal
desktop application" but can be tuned by the application to fit other other
requirements. Any application in any event driven system can be done in a
way that it overruns any size of the queue. If that happens the queue in
CGUI will not be crashed, and no attempt to allocate more memory will be
done in interrupt mode, instead the event will be dropped. See comments and
code in event.c to find out details about how it is all done.
@*
A message consists of a pair: <function pointer, data pointer>. The function
pointer takes a single parameter that is of type void* and the data pointer
is of type void*. When a message is processed it will first be removed from
the queue and the function will be invoked passing it the data pointer as
argument. So the function inserting the <function pointer, data pointer>
is responsible to do that in a way that they match.
@*
How do an hook know which <function, data> to put into the queue? - Each
event type will have its own.

@itemize @bullet

@item  The timer hook will scan the delayed event queue to decrement the
timer counters of all delayed messages, and if it thereby finds that
the counter of any message expired that message will be moved into
the current queue.
@item  To minimize the processing in interrupt mode of the processor, as
much as possible of the algorithms has rather been put into the code
of <function,data> for the keyboard event handling. So the keyboard
hook will always put `KeyBoardHandlerWrapper' into the queue. See
cgkeybrd.c for details.
@item  The mouse hook will for the same reason as the keyboard hook do it
similarly, it will put `ExecuteMouseEvent' into the queue. It is
however worth mentioning there is a second kind of (queue or buffer).
The mouse can easily produce lots of events (typically the user moves
the mouse irritatingly if the application seems "frozen" due to heavy
calculations). The queue is used to buffer repeated clicks. If the
mouse is moved between clicks the moves are filtered out (i.e. the
latest coordinate is the one beeing in the queue - the mouse hook
keeps a pointer to the data in the queue and updates if conditions are
fullfilled, and `ExecuteMouseEvent' will acknowledge when ready).
@end itemize


@node Mouse messages., Object handling of mouse messages, Event processing, Top
@chapter Mouse messages.

`ExecuteMouseEvent' will be applied to the data in the messages queue when
time has come. How does it know what to do? - Since the mouse events
concerns what is shown on the screen, it will search the object
tree for any object that want to receive the message. There is a number of
cases where this is not sufficient. I will mention two obvious
cases.

@itemize @bullet

@item  Suppose the mouse presses a push button widget down (in). While the
mouse button is still down the mouse is dragged off. In that case the
button will still catch all mouse messages until the mouse button is
released. (the push button need to be drawn in the "out" view, and
wants the ability to draw in the "in" view in case the mouse is dragged
over again whlie the mouse button is still down).
@item  A draggable object is gripped, and the mouse is moved to some other
object.
@end itemize

In both these cases it is obvious that CGUI needs some more sophisticated
mechanism than just broadcasting "who wants this mouse message". Any object
that "takes" a message (returns true) can go into a state where it is
prepared to recive all subsequent messages. When it does this it signals
to the mouse handling system that it is "in mouse focus". So
`ExecuteMouseEvent' will always start with passing the event-message to
such a "mouse focus" if there is one. There may be also "second mouse focus"
(for now that is only used by the "drop-object" that a gripped object is
held over). If such "mouse focused" object(s) decide they should no longer
be in focus (because e.g. the mouse event was something like "button up" or
"no longer over" etc.) it will signal this by its return value.
@*There is also a similar mechansim for windows.

@node Object handling of mouse messages, Keys to important things, Mouse messages., Top
@chapter Object handling of mouse messages

All objects have a state machine for mouse messages. This machine is
implemented as a function table and a few variables in the object struct.
Different categories of objects can have different tables (e.g. menu items
doesn't behave the same as push-buttons, and therefore needs another state
machine). However the default one covers a lot of possibilities. This is
to make it simple to combine e.g. click+drag-drop or maybe double-click+
only-grip. The default machine allows to combine click, double-click,
grip, recive-drop and sliding in almost any combination for any combination
of mouse buttons.@*
For a modified behaviour for a subset of object types you will need to make
a copy of the default table and replace the desired states and finally
of course attach the new pointer table to instances of the object
type(s) concerned.

@node Keys to important things, Releasing, Object handling of mouse messages, Top
@chapter Keys to important things

This document was actually a bit fun to write when I started, however after
a while I realized that probably no one will ever read it so I stopped. If I
happen to be wrong my e-mail is rya.christer@@gmail.com

@node Releasing, -, Keys to important things, Top
@chapter Releasing

How to release a new version of CGUI:

@itemize @bullet

@item  Run "sh misc/fixver.sh [version]".
@item  Run "sh misc/fixdll.sh".
@item  Run "sh misc/zipup.sh". It works under dos/djgpp, haven't tested
elsewhere.
@item  Notify [AL] and create a news item at allegro.cc.
@end itemize




@node -, , Releasing, Top
@chapter -

